README.md, before:

# gulp-eslint-new · [![npm version][npm badge]][npm URL]

> A [gulp](https://gulpjs.com/) plugin to lint code with [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) 8

## Installation

[Use](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/install) [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-npm).

```
npm install gulp-eslint-new
```

## Usage

```javascript
const { src } = require('gulp');
const eslint = require('gulp-eslint-new');

// Define the default Gulp task.
exports.default =
    () => src(['scripts/*.js'])
    // eslint() attaches the lint output to the "eslint" property of
    // the file object so it can be used by other modules.
    .pipe(eslint())
    // eslint.format() outputs the lint results to the console.
    // Alternatively use eslint.formatEach() (see Docs).
    .pipe(eslint.format())
    // To have the process exit with an error code (1) on lint error,
    // return the stream and pipe to failAfterError last.
    .pipe(eslint.failAfterError());
```

Or use the plugin API to do things like:

```javascript
gulp.src(['**/*.js', '!node_modules/**'])
    .pipe(eslint({
        overrideConfig: {
            rules: {
                'my-custom-rule': 1,
                'strict': 2
            },
            globals: {
                jQuery: 'readonly',
                $: 'readonly'
            },
            env: {
                'browser': true
            }
        }
    }))
    .pipe(eslint.formatEach('compact', process.stderr));
```

For additional examples, look through the [example directory](https://github.com/fasttime/gulp-eslint-new/tree/main/example).

## API

### `eslint()`

*No explicit configuration.* A `.eslintrc` file may be resolved relative to each linted file.

### `eslint(options)`

Param type: `Object`

[ESLint constructor options](https://eslint.org/docs/developer-guide/nodejs-api#parameters).
Additionally, the following options are supported, either to provide extra functionality to gulp-eslint-new, or for backward compatibility with [gulp-eslint](https://github.com/adametry/gulp-eslint).

#### `options.rules`

Type: `Object`

Set [configuration](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/configuring/rules#configuring-rules) of [rules](https://eslint.org/docs/rules/).

```javascript
{
    "rules": {
        "camelcase": 1,
        "comma-dangle": 2,
        "quotes": 0
    }
}
```

_Prefer using `options.overrideConfig.rules` instead._

#### `options.globals`

Type: `string[]`

Specify [global variables](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/configuring/language-options#specifying-globals) to declare.

```javascript
{
    "globals": [
        "jQuery",
        "$"
    ]
}
```

_Prefer using `options.overrideConfig.globals` instead. Note the different format._

#### `options.fix`

Type: `boolean | (message: LintMessage) => boolean`

See the respective ESLint documentation for information about this option.
The fixes are applied to the gulp stream.
The fixed content can be saved to file using `gulp.dest` (See [example/fix.js](https://github.com/fasttime/gulp-eslint-new/blob/main/example/fix.js)).
Rules that are fixable can be found in ESLint's [rules list](https://eslint.org/docs/rules/).
When fixes are applied, a "fixed" property is set to `true` on the fixed file's ESLint result.

#### `options.quiet`

Type: `boolean`

When `true`, this option will filter warning messages from ESLint results. This mimics the ESLint CLI [`--quiet` option](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface#--quiet).

Type: `(message, index, list) => boolean`

When provided a function, it will be used to filter ESLint result messages, removing any messages that do not return a `true` (or truthy) value.

#### `options.envs`

Type: `string[]`

Specify a list of [environments](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/configuring/language-options#specifying-environments) to be applied.

_Prefer using `options.overrideConfig.env` instead. Note the different option name and format._

#### `options.configFile`

Type: `string | null`

_A legacy synonym for `options.overrideConfigFile`._

#### `options.warnFileIgnored` or `options.warnIgnored`

Type: `boolean`

When `true`, add a result warning when ESLint ignores a file. This can be used to find files that are needlessly being loaded by `gulp.src`. For example, since ESLint automatically ignores "node_modules" file paths and gulp.src does not, a gulp task may take seconds longer just reading files from the "node_modules" directory.

### `eslint(overrideConfigFile)`

Param type: `string`

Shorthand for defining `options.overrideConfigFile`.

### `eslint.result(action)`

Param type: `(result) => void`

Call a function for each ESLint file result. No returned value is expected. If an error is thrown, it will be wrapped in a Gulp PluginError and emitted from the stream.

```javascript
gulp.src(['**/*.js','!node_modules/**'])
    .pipe(eslint())
    .pipe(eslint.result(result => {
        // Called for each ESLint result.
        console.log(`ESLint result: ${result.filePath}`);
        console.log(`# Messages: ${result.messages.length}`);
        console.log(`# Warnings: ${result.warningCount}`);
        console.log(`# Errors: ${result.errorCount}`);
    }));
```

Type: `(result, callback) => void`

Call an asynchronous function for each ESLint file result. The callback must be called for the stream to finish. If a value is passed to the callback, it will be wrapped in a Gulp PluginError and emitted from the stream.


### `eslint.results(action)`

Param type: `(results) => void`

Call a function once for all ESLint file results before a stream finishes. No returned value is expected. If an error is thrown, it will be wrapped in a Gulp PluginError and emitted from the stream.

The results list has a "warningCount" property that is the sum of warnings in all results; likewise, an "errorCount" property is set to the sum of errors in all results.

```javascript
gulp.src(['**/*.js','!node_modules/**'])
    .pipe(eslint())
    .pipe(eslint.results(results => {
        // Called once for all ESLint results.
        console.log(`Total Results: ${results.length}`);
        console.log(`Total Warnings: ${results.warningCount}`);
        console.log(`Total Errors: ${results.errorCount}`);
    }));
```

Param type: `(results, callback) => void`

Call an asynchronous function once for all ESLint file results before a stream finishes. The callback must be called for the stream to finish. If a value is passed to the callback, it will be wrapped in a Gulp PluginError and emitted from the stream.

### `eslint.failOnError()`

Stop a task/stream if an ESLint error has been reported for any file.

```javascript
// Cause the stream to stop(/fail) before copying an invalid JS file to the output directory
gulp.src(['**/*.js','!node_modules/**'])
    .pipe(eslint())
    .pipe(eslint.failOnError());
```

### `eslint.failAfterError()`

Stop a task/stream if an ESLint error has been reported for any file, but wait for all of them to be processed first.

```javascript
// Cause the stream to stop(/fail) when the stream ends if any ESLint error(s) occurred.
gulp.src(['**/*.js','!node_modules/**'])
    .pipe(eslint())
    .pipe(eslint.failAfterError());
```

### `eslint.format(formatter, output)`

Format all linted files once. This should be used in the stream after piping through `eslint`; otherwise, this will find no ESLint results to format.

The `formatter` argument may be a `string`, `Function`, or `undefined`. As a `String`, a formatter module by that name or path will be resolved as a module, relative to `process.cwd()`, or as one of the [ESLint-provided formatters](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/tree/main/lib/cli-engine/formatters). If `undefined`, the ESLint “stylish” formatter will be resolved. A `Function` will be called with an `Array` of file linting results to format.

```javascript
// use the default "stylish" ESLint formatter
eslint.format()

// use the "checkstyle" ESLint formatter
eslint.format('checkstyle')

// use the "eslint-path-formatter" module formatter
// (@see https://github.com/Bartvds/eslint-path-formatter)
eslint.format('node_modules/eslint-path-formatter')
```

The `output` argument may be a `WritableStream`, `Function`, or `undefined`. As a `WritableStream`, the formatter results will be written to the stream. If `undefined`, the formatter results will be written to [gulp’s log](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp-util#logmsg). A `Function` will be called with the formatter results as the only parameter.

```javascript
// write to gulp's log (default)
eslint.format();

// write messages to stdout
eslint.format('junit', process.stdout)
```

### `eslint.formatEach(formatter, output)`

Format each linted file individually. This should be used in the stream after piping through `eslint`; otherwise, this will find no ESLint results to format.

The arguments for `formatEach` are the same as the arguments for `format`.


## Configuration

ESLint may be configured explicity by using any of the supported [configuration options](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/configuring/). If the [`useEslintrc` option](#optionsuseEslintrc) is not set to `false`, ESLint will attempt to resolve a file by the name of `.eslintrc` within the same directory as the file to be linted. If not found there, parent directories will be searched until `.eslintrc` is found or the directory root is reached.

## Ignore Files

ESLint will ignore files that do not have a `.js` file extension at the point of linting ([some plugins](https://github.com/gulp-community/gulp-coffee) may change file extensions mid-stream). This avoids unintentional linting of non-JavaScript files.

ESLint will also detect an `.eslintignore` file at the cwd or a parent directory. See the [ESLint docs](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/configuring/ignoring-code#the-eslintignore-file) to learn how to construct this file.

## Extensions

ESLint results are attached as an "eslint" property to the vinyl files that pass through a Gulp.js stream pipeline. This is available to streams that follow the initial `eslint` stream. The [eslint.result](#result) and [eslint.results](#results) methods are made available to support extensions and custom handling of ESLint results.

#### Gulp-Eslint Extensions:

* [gulp-eslint-if-fixed](https://github.com/lukeapage/gulp-eslint-if-fixed)
* [gulp-eslint-threshold](https://github.com/krmbkt/gulp-eslint-threshold)

[npm badge]: https://badge.fury.io/js/gulp-eslint-new.svg
[npm URL]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/gulp-eslint-new

Commit message:

Add documentation and test for cache-related options

README.md, after:

# gulp-eslint-new · [![npm version][npm badge]][npm URL]

> A [gulp](https://gulpjs.com/) plugin to lint code with [ESLint](https://eslint.org/) 8

## Installation

[Use](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/install) [npm](https://docs.npmjs.com/about-npm).

```
npm install gulp-eslint-new
```

## Usage

```javascript
const { src } = require('gulp');
const eslint = require('gulp-eslint-new');

// Define the default Gulp task.
exports.default =
    () => src(['scripts/*.js'])
    // eslint() attaches the lint output to the "eslint" property of
    // the file object so it can be used by other modules.
    .pipe(eslint())
    // eslint.format() outputs the lint results to the console.
    // Alternatively use eslint.formatEach() (see Docs).
    .pipe(eslint.format())
    // To have the process exit with an error code (1) on lint error,
    // return the stream and pipe to failAfterError last.
    .pipe(eslint.failAfterError());
```

Or use the plugin API to do things like:

```javascript
gulp.src(['**/*.js', '!node_modules/**'])
    .pipe(eslint({
        overrideConfig: {
            rules: {
                'my-custom-rule': 1,
                'strict': 2
            },
            globals: {
                jQuery: 'readonly',
                $: 'readonly'
            },
            env: {
                'browser': true
            }
        }
    }))
    .pipe(eslint.formatEach('compact', process.stderr));
```

For additional examples, look through the [example directory](https://github.com/fasttime/gulp-eslint-new/tree/main/example).

## API

### `eslint()`

*No explicit configuration.* A `.eslintrc` file may be resolved relative to each linted file.

### `eslint(options)`

Param type: `Object`

[ESLint constructor options](https://eslint.org/docs/developer-guide/nodejs-api#parameters).
Additionally, the following options are supported, either to provide extra functionality to gulp-eslint-new, or for backward compatibility with [gulp-eslint](https://github.com/adametry/gulp-eslint).

#### `options.rules`

Type: `Object`

Set [configuration](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/configuring/rules#configuring-rules) of [rules](https://eslint.org/docs/rules/).

```javascript
{
    "rules": {
        "camelcase": 1,
        "comma-dangle": 2,
        "quotes": 0
    }
}
```

_Prefer using `options.overrideConfig.rules` instead._

#### `options.globals`

Type: `string[]`

Specify [global variables](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/configuring/language-options#specifying-globals) to declare.

```javascript
{
    "globals": [
        "jQuery",
        "$"
    ]
}
```

_Prefer using `options.overrideConfig.globals` instead. Note the different format._

#### `options.fix`

Type: `boolean | (message: LintMessage) => boolean`

See the respective ESLint documentation for information about this option.
The fixes are applied to the gulp stream.
The fixed content can be saved to file using `gulp.dest` (See [example/fix.js](https://github.com/fasttime/gulp-eslint-new/blob/main/example/fix.js)).
Rules that are fixable can be found in ESLint's [rules list](https://eslint.org/docs/rules/).
When fixes are applied, a "fixed" property is set to `true` on the fixed file's ESLint result.

#### `options.quiet`

Type: `boolean`

When `true`, this option will filter warning messages from ESLint results. This mimics the ESLint CLI [`--quiet` option](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/command-line-interface#--quiet).

Type: `(message, index, list) => boolean`

When provided a function, it will be used to filter ESLint result messages, removing any messages that do not return a `true` (or truthy) value.

#### `options.envs`

Type: `string[]`

Specify a list of [environments](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/configuring/language-options#specifying-environments) to be applied.

_Prefer using `options.overrideConfig.env` instead. Note the different option name and format._

#### `options.configFile`

Type: `string | null`

_A legacy synonym for `options.overrideConfigFile`._

#### `options.warnFileIgnored` or `options.warnIgnored`

Type: `boolean`

When `true`, add a result warning when ESLint ignores a file. This can be used to find files that are needlessly being loaded by `gulp.src`. For example, since ESLint automatically ignores "node_modules" file paths and gulp.src does not, a gulp task may take seconds longer just reading files from the "node_modules" directory.

#### `options.cache`, `options.cacheLocation` and `options.cacheStrategy`

The cache-related options provided by ESLint are currently ignored.
They have no effect even if specified.

### `eslint(overrideConfigFile)`

Param type: `string`

Shorthand for defining `options.overrideConfigFile`.

### `eslint.result(action)`

Param type: `(result) => void`

Call a function for each ESLint file result. No returned value is expected. If an error is thrown, it will be wrapped in a Gulp PluginError and emitted from the stream.

```javascript
gulp.src(['**/*.js','!node_modules/**'])
    .pipe(eslint())
    .pipe(eslint.result(result => {
        // Called for each ESLint result.
        console.log(`ESLint result: ${result.filePath}`);
        console.log(`# Messages: ${result.messages.length}`);
        console.log(`# Warnings: ${result.warningCount}`);
        console.log(`# Errors: ${result.errorCount}`);
    }));
```

Type: `(result, callback) => void`

Call an asynchronous function for each ESLint file result. The callback must be called for the stream to finish. If a value is passed to the callback, it will be wrapped in a Gulp PluginError and emitted from the stream.


### `eslint.results(action)`

Param type: `(results) => void`

Call a function once for all ESLint file results before a stream finishes. No returned value is expected. If an error is thrown, it will be wrapped in a Gulp PluginError and emitted from the stream.

The results list has a "warningCount" property that is the sum of warnings in all results; likewise, an "errorCount" property is set to the sum of errors in all results.

```javascript
gulp.src(['**/*.js','!node_modules/**'])
    .pipe(eslint())
    .pipe(eslint.results(results => {
        // Called once for all ESLint results.
        console.log(`Total Results: ${results.length}`);
        console.log(`Total Warnings: ${results.warningCount}`);
        console.log(`Total Errors: ${results.errorCount}`);
    }));
```

Param type: `(results, callback) => void`

Call an asynchronous function once for all ESLint file results before a stream finishes. The callback must be called for the stream to finish. If a value is passed to the callback, it will be wrapped in a Gulp PluginError and emitted from the stream.

### `eslint.failOnError()`

Stop a task/stream if an ESLint error has been reported for any file.

```javascript
// Cause the stream to stop(/fail) before copying an invalid JS file to the output directory.
gulp.src(['**/*.js','!node_modules/**'])
    .pipe(eslint())
    .pipe(eslint.failOnError());
```

### `eslint.failAfterError()`

Stop a task/stream if an ESLint error has been reported for any file, but wait for all of them to be processed first.

```javascript
// Cause the stream to stop(/fail) when the stream ends if any ESLint error(s) occurred.
gulp.src(['**/*.js','!node_modules/**'])
    .pipe(eslint())
    .pipe(eslint.failAfterError());
```

### `eslint.format(formatter, output)`

Format all linted files once. This should be used in the stream after piping through `eslint`; otherwise, this will find no ESLint results to format.

The `formatter` argument may be a `string`, `Function`, or `undefined`. As a `String`, a formatter module by that name or path will be resolved as a module, relative to `process.cwd()`, or as one of the [ESLint-provided formatters](https://github.com/eslint/eslint/tree/main/lib/cli-engine/formatters). If `undefined`, the ESLint “stylish” formatter will be resolved. A `Function` will be called with an `Array` of file linting results to format.

```javascript
// use the default "stylish" ESLint formatter
eslint.format()

// use the "checkstyle" ESLint formatter
eslint.format('checkstyle')

// use the "eslint-path-formatter" module formatter
// (@see https://github.com/Bartvds/eslint-path-formatter)
eslint.format('node_modules/eslint-path-formatter')
```

The `output` argument may be a `WritableStream`, `Function`, or `undefined`. As a `WritableStream`, the formatter results will be written to the stream. If `undefined`, the formatter results will be written to [gulp’s log](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp-util#logmsg). A `Function` will be called with the formatter results as the only parameter.

```javascript
// write to gulp's log (default)
eslint.format();

// write messages to stdout
eslint.format('junit', process.stdout)
```

### `eslint.formatEach(formatter, output)`

Format each linted file individually. This should be used in the stream after piping through `eslint`; otherwise, this will find no ESLint results to format.

The arguments for `formatEach` are the same as the arguments for `format`.


## Configuration

ESLint may be configured explicity by using any of the supported [configuration options](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/configuring/). If the [`useEslintrc` option](#optionsuseEslintrc) is not set to `false`, ESLint will attempt to resolve a file by the name of `.eslintrc` within the same directory as the file to be linted. If not found there, parent directories will be searched until `.eslintrc` is found or the directory root is reached.

## Ignore Files

ESLint will ignore files that do not have a `.js` file extension at the point of linting ([some plugins](https://github.com/gulp-community/gulp-coffee) may change file extensions mid-stream). This avoids unintentional linting of non-JavaScript files.

ESLint will also detect an `.eslintignore` file at the cwd or a parent directory. See the [ESLint docs](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/configuring/ignoring-code#the-eslintignore-file) to learn how to construct this file.

## Extensions

ESLint results are attached as an "eslint" property to the vinyl files that pass through a Gulp.js stream pipeline. This is available to streams that follow the initial `eslint` stream. The [eslint.result](#result) and [eslint.results](#results) methods are made available to support extensions and custom handling of ESLint results.

#### Gulp-Eslint Extensions:

* [gulp-eslint-if-fixed](https://github.com/lukeapage/gulp-eslint-if-fixed)
* [gulp-eslint-threshold](https://github.com/krmbkt/gulp-eslint-threshold)

[npm badge]: https://badge.fury.io/js/gulp-eslint-new.svg
[npm URL]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/gulp-eslint-new
